SmallTyposSweep.pathogenesis.md (#302)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/07.pathogenesis.md

##### Factors enhancing viral spreading

Viral progression may be enhanced by active upregulation of ACE2 on cell surfaces following or during a response to infection.

> In several preliminary assays and an analysis of previous microarray data, Wang et al. reported that ACE2 is significantly upregulated following infection of other coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, as well as viruses such as rhinovirus and influenza virus [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.24.963348].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In several preliminary assays and an analysis of previous microarray data, Wang et al. reported that ACE2 is significantly upregulated following infection by other coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, as well as viruses such as rhinovirus and influenza virus [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.24.963348].
```

> Additionally, direct stimulation with inflammatory cytokines such as type I interferons resulted in upregulation of ACE2, with treated groups showing 4-fold higher ACE2 expression as compared to control groups at 18 hours post-treatment [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.24.963348].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, direct stimulation with inflammatory cytokines such as type I interferons resulted in the upregulation of ACE2, with treated groups showing 4-fold higher ACE2 expression than control groups at 18 hours post-treatment [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.24.963348].
```

Though whether SARS-CoV-2 infection facilitates positive regulation of its own transmission between host cells is still unclear, the host immune response itself likely plays a key role in mediating infection-associated pathologies.

> One severe example includes reports of cytokine storm-like responses in patients with particularly severe infections, in which the overproduction of inflammatory cytokines leads to systemic inflammation and potentially multi-organ failure, and may very well accelerate the spread of virus in the host [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.24.963348; @doi:10/ggnzmc].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One severe example includes reports of cytokine storm-like responses in patients with particularly severe infections, in which the overproduction of inflammatory cytokines leads to systemic inflammation and potentially multi-organ failure, which may very well accelerate the spread of virus in the host [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.24.963348; @doi:10/ggnzmc].
```

> In a first study [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.22.002386], 26 of the 29 SARS-CoV-2 proteins were cloned and expressed in HEK293T kidney cells and 332 high confidence human proteins that interact with them were consequently identified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an initial study [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.22.002386], 26 of the 29 SARS-CoV-2 proteins were cloned and expressed in HEK293T kidney cells, allowing for the identification of 332 high-confidence human proteins that interact with them.
```

> Notably, this study suggested the interaction of SARS-CoV-2 with innate immunity pathways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notably, this study suggested that SARS-CoV-2 interacts with innate immunity pathways.
```

> The ranking of pathogens with respect to their interactome similarity with SARS-CoV-2 suggested *West Nile Virus*, *Mycobacterium tuberculosis*, and *Human papillomavirus* as the top three hits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ranking of pathogens with respect to their interactome's similarity to SARS-CoV-2 suggested *West Nile Virus*, *Mycobacterium tuberculosis*, and *Human papillomavirus* as the top three hits.
```

> However, given the lung symptoms associated with COVID-19, *Mycobacterium tuberculosis* host-pathogen interactome could provide new insights to the mechanism of SARS-CoV-2 infection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, given the lung symptoms associated with COVID-19, the *Mycobacterium tuberculosis* host-pathogen interactome could also provide new insights to the mechanism of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
```
